---
layout:     post
title:      "WomenTechWomenYes Fundraising"
subtitle:   "Optomize WTWY fundraising team's effort"
date:       2017-07-10 15:30:00
author:     "Allen Shi"
header-img: "img/posts/MTA.jpg"
comments: true
---

## Story
WomenTechWomenYes (WTWY) has an annual gala at the beginning of the summer each year and is trying to do double duty with the gala both to fill the event space with individuals passionate about increasing the participation of women in technology, and to concurrently build awareness and reach.

The stragtegy is to place street teams at entrances to subway stations. The street teams collect email addresses and those who sign up are sent free tickets to the gala.

## Goal
The goal is to help WTWY grow attendance and awareness of their upcoming gala and optimize the street team's effort by using New York MTA data.

## Data
The data we used for this project is collected by New York MTA. The 3 month worth of MTA data contains the number of entries of each turnstile in all the metro stations in New York. The number of entries for each turnstile is collected every 4 hours in a day.

## Approach
The audiences of interest are women going to and from work and people who work in technology. Using proprietary research, we identified densely populated regions of target demographics. We used MTA data to identify metro stations in target regions with the highest traffic in three different periods in a day - 6:30am to 12:30pm, 12:30pm to 18:30pm and 18:30pm - 20:30pm. 

## Data Analysis

We first grouped the data and selected top 3 most entered stations from Monday to Sunday for each time frame that the street teams could have 3 different choices.

The figure below shows the traffic of the top 3 most entered stations within a week. 
<iframe width="700" height="500" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~a98051827/48.embed"></iframe>
The specific stations are labeled in the table.
|          |     Monday    |  Tuesday  |  Wednesday |  Thursday |  Friday  | Saturday |   Sunday  |
|----------|:-------------:|----------:|-----------:|----------:|---------:|---------:|----------:|
|   Best   |    YORK ST F  | YORK ST F |  YORK ST F | YORK ST F | YORK ST F| 125 ST 1 | 125 ST 23 |



|          |  Monday   |  Tuesday |   Wednesday | Thursday | Friday | Saturday | Sunday | 
|----------|:-------------:|---------:|-----------:|--------:|--------:|--------:|--------:|
|   best   |  YORK ST F |  YORK ST F |   YORK ST F |   YORK ST F | YORK ST F| 125 ST 1 | 125 ST 23 |






